[Music]
hello everyone and welcome to the real
world applications of
calculus we first begin with the
basics a derivative is the slope of any
curve at a certain point the Dy and DX
length are infinitly small
on the other hand integration of any
function is the area under the curve
within a certain
bound this leads right into the first
application of calculus which is in
Geometry say we have a circle of
equation X2 + Y2 = 4 first we manipulate
this equation and isolate y to get it as
a function of x
we can find the area in Parts the first
part can be calculated by integrating
this equation from 0 to 2 we apply trick
substitution by letting x = 2 sin Theta
then DX = 2 cos Theta D Theta after
simplification we use cos 2 Theta
formula finally we get pi
this means the whole area is 4
Pi next the field for which calculus was
invented in the first place physics
let's derive one of the equations of
motion the acceleration of a body is the
derivative of velocity with respect to
time after rearranging we can integrate
on both sides as the body accelerates
from initial velocity U to final
velocity V the time goes from 0 to T
this gives us one of the fundamental
equations in Newtonian
physics next up
economics the luren curve is a graphical
representation of the distribution of
income or wealth in a society basically
the farther the curve moves from the
Baseline represented by a straight
diagonal line the higher the level of
inequality if x population receives f
ofx of income assuming the total income
of an economy is 1 the remaining income
1 minus f of x is distributed among the
remaining fraction of population 1 - x
this remaining fraction is the Richer
section and the average income of all
richer individuals will be represented
by 1 - F ofx by 1 -
x the individual with income X is
supposed to have a constant fraction
Delta where Delta is less than one
further if an individual's contribution
to Loren's curve is a derivative of the
curve then this equation is a linear
non-homogeneous differential
equation lastly let's see how calculus
is used to approximate solutions to
functions imagine a function f ofx whose
solution we want we start with an
initial guess X1 we then calculate F of
X1 if F of X1 is z we have a solution
but most likely F of X1 is not
zero we then draw the tangent line at
the point where our initial guess
intersects with the function this
tangent line is a good linear
approximation to F ofx near X1 so our
next guess X2 is the point where this
line intersects with the
xaxis we proceed with the same method as
the approximation gets closer to the
True Value this method for finding a
solution is Newton's
method let F ofx from R to R be a
differentiable function we seek a
solution of f ofx = 0 starting from an
initial estimate X = X1 at the nend step
given xn compute the next approximation
xn + 1 by xn + 1 = xn - F of xn by frime
of xn
there are many more applications of
calculus in the real world this much for
today thank you for watching
[Music]